# Flagship Thread 21 Nov 2023 [(Link)](https://twitter.com/houseofbeingg/status/1727006026053079181)


1.  Prices rallied late on Friday and through Monday with the increased expectation of either OPEC+ or just Saudi cutting. If cutting is about creating strong backwardation to stabilise prices, then I think they are flawed in their thinking.
2.  It May drive out short speculators short term but oil price cannot just go up continually. Oil price movements are about momentum. At some point there will become a dearth of buyers. Longs will then take profit and short sellers will rejoin the fray pushing prices down again.
3. It ends in a vicious circle of cuts, followed by extension of the cuts followed by more cuts just trying to keep prices high. This would be similar to their 1980s policy which failed miserably. You cannot cut forever. to try to keep price up.
4. Have initial rumours of a cut been to test the water? It is noticeable there has been no denial of the FT story yet. If the story is wrong then there is usually a firm response quickly. But at this point, trying to manage price with cutting volume looks a bigger risk long term
5. As the bigger question is how do Saudi get their volume back into the market? How do you return barrels without seeing the price drop? We are going into the low demand Q1/Q2. This voluntary 1mbpd cut was meant to be for 1 month. We are now 7 months minimum for the cut
6. There was the recent bull panic "what cut" graphs showing Saudi exports up. This was despite this being because of the end of burn season and due to some refinery maintenance. Imagine the effect when they start to increase production and exports?
7. Currently, Refineries are trimming runs as demand slowed. Gasoline looks a problem especially with so much butane available. Singapore/ARA running with higher than normal inventories.  Distillates holding up the margin, But what if it is a warm winter?
8. But OPEC have not helped themselves either. First, there is now a building expectation of a cut in market. If they dont cut what happens to prices? Second, they did not learn from 2021. Do not have bad news for the market around the Thanksgiving weekend.
9. While US traders are Eating turkey or nursing  hangovers this long weekend, there is typically a lack of volume trade. Should word be leaked of no cuts, this lack of volume could see prices fall sharply. In 2021, prices fell $10 on Black Friday due to rumours about COVID.
10. What will be interesting will happen a week or so after. What will Saudi do with their OSPs? If they don't cut at OPEC meeting, may use OSPs to reduce exports. Diffs have fallen strongly lately in every region as demand fallen. WAF is down more than $4.
11. Realistically, Saudi needed to cut OSPs to Asia for January loaders to compete. Saudi crudes are already expensive. If they dont cut the osps then it suggests they are trying to reduce exports. Refiners will minimise demand on their LTCs and buy from other regions.
12. One question is for how much longer will Saudi subsidize Russia? The Saudi cuts of medium/heavy sour crudes have benefitted Russia, Iran and Venezuela the most. These cuts pushed up the differentials those countries can ask for their crude oil.
13. This meeting will be interesting. There are a lot of questions to ask. There are reasons for a cut and there are reasons to not cut. But one thing is for sure the OPEC+ meeting has again created volatility rather than stability . OPEC+ meetings have become a huge problem