# Flagship Thread 01 Jan 24 [(link)](https://twitter.com/Big_Orrin/status/1742845871434109026)

1. A quick thread on how european buyers use their Long Term Contract with saudi Arabia. Saudi Long term Contracts in Europe are falling. European refiners see Saudi Arabia prices being way to high compared to the actual value of their crude oil.
2. There is a reason they are expensive and that is Saudi using it to limit demand for their crude during period where they are cutting production to try and force prices up. But this means European refiners see Saudi as a less dependable supplier.
3. This suits Saudi as well as they can focus on the Far east markets. For European's market structure becomes just as important as how much they can minimise the volume they take on the long term. This is where cheapness comes into play and dates of loading come into play.
4. Saudi cargoes are priced using Brent futures averaged over the month. In this regard, price of when you buy the cargo does not matter as it will be the same price whenever it loads. What matters is the price versus other cargoes in the market and therefore the market sructure
5. Remember under LTC you need to buy a cargo no matter. When comparing against other cargoes you must compare the market structure particularly the weekly CFDs i.e. the difference between Dated Brent and Brent futures.
6. In a contango market, the weekly CFDs are more expensive later in the month than at the beginning. Therefore, it means dated is cheaper at beginning of month and more expensive at end relative to brent futures
7. Therefore, is better to buy Saudi crude oil at the end of the month because it is relatively cheaper to other crude oils than it is at the beginning. Remember that Saudi crude price is fixed throughout the month. So the difference between dated brent and brent futures matters
8. A refiner can save more by buying non-saudi cargoers at the beginning because they are relatively cheaper vs saudi than they are at the end. So a European refiner will nominate an end month loader.
9. In a backwardated market, dated is more expensive at the beginning of the month than the end. So it is better to buy the saudi cargoes at the beginning because they are relatively cheaper than at the end versus other cargoes.
10. Sidi Kerir can become low when the market moves from backwardation into contango because the flow to european refiners sees purchases bought at the beginning of first month and at end of second month. It leaves few cargoes moving during the middle period. As is the case now.
11. OB: Very well unpacked. I would add: There is a minimum volume that a buyer is committed to lift every month, and some cargoes go spot. When market is weak spot volume becomes a function of freight (VLCCs - TD3C). China knows how to play the formula game as well