# Flagship Thread 24 Feb 2024 [(Link)](https://twitter.com/Big_Orrin/status/1761312576778989890)

1. Ed Conway thread [link](https://twitter.com/EdConwaySky/status/1761071330101731477)
2. Great thread on Jevons Paradox. Consider gasoline/diesel. If ICEs are replaced what happens to these oil components? Likely human ingenuity will find a more efficient use than burning in ICEs. Means demand may increase not decrease because of price drop. Oil demand remains high.
3. 🧵Here's a thread about an obscure economic theory from a century and a half ago, which is about to become a MASSIVE deal.⚡️It helps explains why tackling climate change is going to be v v hard. Some say impossible. The story begins with this building👇
4. Yes it's the @SphereVegas. Not just a massive entertainment venue but also the world's biggest screen. By all accounts it's an amazing spectacle both outside and in, where there's also a ginormous wraparound LED screen (also one of the biggest anywhere)
5. Get up close to that enormous exterior screen & it looks v different. You see an array of little glowing pucks, each one decked with 48 light emitting diodes (LEDs). These act as the "pixels" of the image you see from miles around. These things are magi
6. Each of these LEDs (there are 1.2 million on @SphereVegas) are the culmination of one of humankind’s great engineering quests. We've been able to produce LEDs - a form of semiconductor that glows when you pass current through it - since the 60s/70s But, crucially, not ALL colours.
7. US scientists learnt early on how to make red/green LEDs, but they struggled to mass produce blue LEDs. And that was a big deal because a. without blue you can't have truly multicolour/white displays (you need RGB!) b. LEDs had an enormous promise. To revolutionise lighting...
8. US scientists learnt early on how to make red/green LEDs, but they struggled to mass produce blue LEDs. And that was a big deal because a. without blue you can't have truly multicolour/white displays (you need RGB!) b. LEDs had an enormous promise. To revolutionise lighting... (chart of energy efficiency: oil lamp, light bulb, fluoroscent lamp, LED timeline)
9. So, whoever could make a blue LED could potentially open up the door to an incredible leap in lighting. Because we could then make LED arrays producing whatever colours we wanted. Or, more prosaically, LEDs white enough to replace traditional light bulbs.
But it was HARD.
10. ...so hard that most scientists gave up. But three Japanese researchers didn't. They plugged away for years, working on gallium nitride and other compounds to try to make mass producible blue LEDs. And in the 1990s, they succeeded. It was a massive deal.
11. So much so that a decade ago they were awarded a Nobel prize. The Committee said: “As about one fourth of world electricity consumption is used for lighting purposes, the LEDs contribute to saving the Earth’s resources.” They were a BIG deal for climate (blue LED Nobel Prize [link](https://t.co/7Lz34w2ZNN))
12. Which sounds intuitive doesn't it? If u get the same amount of light with a fraction of the energy, surely it stands to reason that our energy demand should go down? But here’s where things get a bit knotty. Because this doesn't always happen. In fact the opposite often happens
13. Have a look at @IEA figs for global energy consumption for lighting. Residential demand has gone down. That's largely because of LEDs. Hurrah! But commercial lighting demand has actually gone up. Some of that is population growth & development. But partly it's something else... Chart of IEA figs, global energy consumption in TWH from 2010 to 2022, stacked bar chart, residential vs commercial.
14. Partly it's because we have come up with more and more reasons to use LEDs (which are also getting cheaper and cheaper). @SphereVegas is only the most glaring example. There are LEDs EVERYWHERE these days. Here's a great piece by  @AnnieLowrey about that: [link](https://t.co/5UZ3iP2z9n)
15. In other words, we're not just banking all those efficiency gains. We're going out & spending them. Good news with LEDs is, so far at least, the efficiency gains are so great that our extra demand for lumens hasn't completely swallowed them up. But there's a precedent here...
16. In early 20th century when electric lighting came along, energy demand for lighting actually fell for a bit. After all, electric lights were so much more efficient than town gas (converted coal). But then look what happened after that dip. Another BIG rise. We spent the savings!
17. Nor is this a new phenomenon. The first person to formalise this into a "paradox" was a 19th century English economist, William Stanley Jevons. He noticed that even tho steam engines were getting more efficient, overall coal consumption kept rising. He wrote a book about it...
18. In The Coal Question Jevons wrote: "It is the very economy of [coal's] use which leads to its extensive consumption. It has been so in the past and it will be so in the future. Nor is it difficult to see how this paradox arises." It implied coal consumption would skyrocket 👇
19. In one sense Jevons was wrong: coal use rose. But not as much as those charts 👆 But... that's partly because other fossil fuels came along. Our appetite for ENERGY kept on rising through the years. As fuels got more efficient we came up with ever more ways of burning them...
20. The Jevons Paradox is about human nature. We seem to be addicted to consuming stuff. Look around & you see examples aplenty. The chips powering the internet are getting MUCH more energy efficient. But web traffic is rising so fast that its OVERALL ENERGY DEMAND web is going UP.
21. Here's a good recent example from Britain. An experiment found that when people installed home insulation the average home ended up using just the same energy for heating within a few months. Why? Cos they turned up their thermostats to have hotter homes [link](https://twitter.com/Adam_Grant_Bell/status/1617538839957979139)
22. Some argue these effects are overplayed. Yes there's often a "rebound". But not enough to outweigh efficiency savings. Consider refrigerators. They're much more efficient today. So despite us having more fridges these days, total energy demand from refrigeration is DOWN. Hurrah!
23. But now consider that the clever compressors which have improved refrigerators' efficiency are also used in air conditioners. And AC demand is through the roof. Total energy for COOLING is at best flat. Look at green slices in this 
@rob_by_robwest chart [link](https://thundersaidenergy.com/downloads/us-residential-energy-consumption-over-time/)
24. Now, energy economists are well aware of this stuff. They build "rebound effects" into most of their modelling. But even so, there's a big looming question mark. Which is that pretty much every plan out there about how we get to net zero assumes we shrink global energy demand
25. It's worth being specific about this. It means not just shrinking PRIMARY energy demand (far more doable) but also FINAL energy demand. Eg look at the  @IEAs Net Zero plan and it assumes our FINAL energy demand also drops. Thanks to efficiency gains and behavioural changes.  
26. This makes sense in a model. It makes sense if you assume we will bank most of the savings we get from better LED bulbs, from electric cars (which are MUCH more energy efficient than ICE engines, which waste most primary energy as heat). But does it make sense in the real world?
27. The Jevons Paradox would suggest not. It wld suggest that humans will just come up with ever better ways of deploying everything from LED bulbs to electric motors and so on, to do more STUFF. Our appetite for consumption will outweigh everything else. It's a convincing argument.
28. Some working in energy disagree. @jmaxwellsdcl, a serious player in energy efficiency, says Jevons is massively overplayed. He says there's WAY more energy waste in the public, commercial & industrial sectors that we could eliminate, & it's a mistake to fixate on consumer demand
29. Others see it everywhere. @rob_by_robwest has documented multiple examples👇 He has an intriguing solution: fight Jevons with Jevons. If it's human nature to consume more stuff when it's cheaper, then that should go for energy SUPPLY as well as DEMAND. [paid article](https://thundersaidenergy.com/2023/09/21/jevons-paradox-what-evidence-for-energy-savings/)
30. In other words, we should be focusing all our efforts on making solar/DAC etc so cheap and efficient that it is comfortably cheaper than all fossil fuel options. On that front, we're getting there, but, when you take into account intermittency costs/storage, we're not there yet.
31. Others argue that the only real solution here is clamping down on consumer demand. Taxes, elevated energy pricing etc. Degrowth. But while that might make the sums in the models add up, it runs headlong into human nature & the Jevons Paradox. Humans seem hardwired to CONSUME
32. This is all a very long-winded way of saying: do go and read my piece all about this for @nytopinion. And, even more importantly, check out the amazing graphics alongside the column. Jevons is a big deal! Agree or not, we should be talking about it more! Conway's NYTimes article [link](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/22/opinion/vegas-sphere-energy-efficiency.html).