# Flagship Thread by AllThingsLNG 12 Jan 2024 ([Link])(https://twitter.com/AllthingsLNG/status/1745478116842307983) 

The Genius Strategy: Even in a Downturn, US LNG Plants will Profit as Traders & Portfolio Players Absorb the Impact of Cheap LNG

There is a perception that rising costs of building LNG plants will require high spot-priced #LNG globally in order to justify the expenses to build more LNG plants in the USA.

It is a myth. 

It is important to understand how US LNG plants are financed in order to understand how easily they can accommodate cheap spot LNG prices around the world.

With the exception of Golden Pass LNG, all other LNG plants in the USA are built by investor funding from private investment firms. 

None of these companies are traditional Oil & Gas majors which have singlehandedly built the large LNG plants around the world in the past and continue to do so today outside the USA. 

The owners of these LNG plants are investors themselves. They build the LNG plants by first looking for equity partners, which gives them capital to lease/buy land, hire design specialists to do a feasibility study, and hire EPC contractors to perform FEED for building an LNG plant, which they then take to the financiers/lenders who come up with the financing required to build the plant.

The financiers/lenders look for two things to fund the project.

1. Project Assurance - The ability of the EPC contractor to deliver the project, as the investor group that builds the LNG plant often is new to the LNG plant-building business, even though they bring in top talent from the Oil & Gas majors involved in building LNG plants.

2. Assurance that debt will be serviced by cash flow generated by the regular operation of the plant.

With the involvement of world-class EPC contractors such as Bechtel, Chiyoda, et al., project assurance is guaranteed. If they get the funding, the project will be built.

For servicing the debt, the lender requires assurance that almost all the production will be tied to a predictable cash flow based on offtake agreements predicated on a take-or-pay basis.

To derisk the plant from defaulting on the financing debt, the US LNG plant owners commit almost all of their LNG production on a long-term basis with reputed creditworthy buyers.

These buyers predominantly fall into two categories: 

1. End users such as gas utility companies that need the gas for their operations such as power generation, fertilizer production, CNG/LNG distribution for the transportation sector, etc.

2. LNG traders and portfolio players that purchase LNG on long-term agreements from US LNG plants and then sell that LNG on a short-term basis in global markets, predominantly on a spot basis in Europe (TTF index-based trading) and Asia (JKM index-based trading).

Now let's talk about how the US LNG plants recover their investments, including the heavy debt burden for building the plant. 

They charge a "liquefaction fee" per MMbtu basis for the LNG sold to the offtakers.

That fee has been under $3/MMbtu for US LNG projects. Initially, Cheniere sold their LNG at $2.25/MMbtu, but now, due to price escalations, that fee is getting closer to $3/MMbtu.

If you are an LNG offtaker of an US LNG plant, you pay the plant for the LNG based on a pricing formula that has three components:

1. Liquefaction fee - This covers the plant owner's expenses of building and operating the plant.

2. Cost of gas - Tied to a formula based on the pricing of the HH index for the price of gas.

3. Transportation cost - The price required to ship the LNG from the US LNG plant to its desired destination.

Out of the 3 costs incurred by the LNG offtaker, the plant owner has no concern for the cost of gas and transportation cost; the offtaker has already agreed to buy the gas on his own (tolling arrangement) or will pay the LNG plant the price to procure gas on his behalf (SPA arrangement).

The main price component of the offtake price that the 
US LNG plant owner pockets is the liquefaction fee. 

And that liquefaction fee goes a LONG way.

Let me explain.

The liquefaction fee includes all the expenses the plant owner would incur for running the plant. It covers capital recovery, operating costs, return on investment, debt servicing costs, insurance, profit margin, and even costs for future upgrades.

So when an LNG plant charges $2.5/MMbtu as liquefaction fees, it has already made money on that cargo, i.e. took care of all the expenses and turned a decent profit on the transaction.

Considering the fact that over 90%+ of the LNG offtake agreements of US LNG projects are based on long-term contracts, and since all of these contracts have take-or-pay clauses, once the LNG cargoes leave the jetty, the plant gets the money deposited for that cargo based on the contracted price. 

Now the risk is on the buyer to ensure they get their money's worth for the LNG cargo.

If that buyer is an end user, such as a gas utility, then there is no problem. They will use that gas to produce electricity and will make a decent return on their purchase. 

But if that buyer is an LNG trader or a portfolio player, now the buyer has to find a place to sell that LNG at a higher price. 

They are the ones who are taking the risk of making a profit or loss on that cargo, not the US LNG plant. The US LNG plant will be quite content to get the liquefaction fee, and that would be the end of it.

So if the LNG bears' prediction comes true, and all this new added US LNG volume floods the global market and the price of spot LNG goes down to, say, $3/MMBTU or $6/MMbtu, who will have to foot that loss? 

Not the US LNG plant, but the trader/portfolio player who bought the LNG at the contracted price and now has to sell it at a higher price. 

So if they pay $9/MMbtu to a US LNG plant, and have no choice but to sell it at $6/MMbtu in Asian markets, they suffer that loss. 

Therefore it is in the best interest of developing Asian countries that rely on cheap spot LNG purchases, that the USA continues to build more LNG capacity and increase the volume of globally traded LNG. 

If anything, this will reduce the cost of spot LNG in the future if demand from Europe truly comes down as some experts are predicting. 

US LNG plants are essentially shielded from this downturn in spot pricing because they have the LNG traders and portfolio buyers on the hook to buy LNG at the contracted price for 20 years. 

So whether the JKM spot price goes to $3/MMbtu or $5/MMbtu anytime in the next 20 years, that's the concern for LNG resellers, not the US LNG plants. 

US LNG plants  have already made their money selling that LNG at a contracted price. It is the LNG traders and Portfolio players that will take the losses by selling them on the spot market, the same traders and portfolio players that made tens of billions in profit using the same arrangement by selling this LNG to Europe in the last 3 quarters of 2022.

US LNG plants have de-risked their project with such brilliance that no matter what happens to the spot price of LNG globally for the two decades after starting the LNG production, they will stay in business and provide a good return on their investment. It is nothing short of a stroke of genius. 

The LNG traders and portfolio players, on the other hand, are making a bet that they can continue to sell LNG at a profit for the next two decades. Thus, they are risking their capital, counting on the fact that the demand for LNG will outstrip the supply for the contracted time.